---
title:  "" # Title goes here
date:   2016-12-10 # Date of post in format YYYY-MM-DD 
categories: beans # Either 'beans' or 'shops'
layout: post #always post

image: /coffee.jpg # /coffee.jpg is default

purchase-location: "" # Shop name
purchase-address: "" # Shop address

purchases:
- item: "" # What was purchase (i.e. a latte)  
  volume: "" # How many (i.e. 1)
  price: "" # How much 1 of the item costs without the £ sign (i.e. 3.50)
---

Tips from [Eater](http://www.eater.com/2016/3/13/11214194/how-to-taste-coffee):

> [...] The main characteristics to look for across the board are **sweetness**, **acidity**, **body**, and **cleanliness**, and if there is a lingering aftertaste, of course, you want it to be pleasant.

> [...] For the layperson it's great to start with the basic flavor categories, and a good way to classify them is by attaching the general profiles to the specific geographical origins where they commonly occur. Is the coffee sweet like caramel or maple syrup? You'll find this is often true of Colombian coffee. Is it fruity like mango, pear, or pineapple? You might be drinking a Central American Coffee. Does it feature the bright, punchy acidity of raspberry, orange or grapefruit? Then you could be basking in the glow of a Kenya or a Rwanda. Is it nutty and chocolatey? This is a classic profile for Brazil. Is it roasty, earthy, tobacco-like, or spicy like clove or nutmeg? This is not uncommon for beans from Indonesia. It's important to remember the rules of origin profiles are not hard and fast. Expect to find plenty of overlap across origins, and be pleasantly surprised by the inevitable anomalies along the way.

Tips from [Street Directory](http://www.streetdirectory.com/food_editorials/beverages/coffee/learn_the_art_to_taste_testing_coffee.html):

> - Acidity - This is the tartness of the blend, basically, how dry the coffee tastes. Aging plays a big role in the acid content and is more noticeable in Mexican Sumatra brew.
> - Aroma - This is the smell. It can have a range of smells form fruity to herb to floral.
> - Bitter - Bitterness can be found by swishing it back and forth on the tongue. You should be able to pick up how much or how little bitterness the blend has.
> - Body - Body describes the thickness of the feel on the tongue. A light roast will likely have less body then a dark roast.
> - Nuttiness - As the name suggests, some coffees give off a roasted nut like flavor. Nuttiness is actually a flavor sensation that is not preferred and characteristic of a poor blend.
> - Sharpness - This is the pronounced flavor of the blend. It is caused by the mixing of salt and acids.

Tips from [Refinery29](http://www.refinery29.com/2016/03/105491/how-to-taste-coffee):

> Starbucks' Four Steps To Coffee Tasting Like A Pro

> 1. Smell (“Paddle & Swirl”): Always smell a coffee before you taste it. Your tongue distinguishes only five tastes: sweet, sour, salty, bitter, and umami — but your nose can detect thousands of smells. Cup your hand over the coffee, hold the cup close to your nose, and inhale.
> 2. Slurp ("Dip & Scoop"): When tasting a coffee, it’s important to slurp it. Slurping sprays the coffee across your entire palate and lets subtle flavors and aromas reach your nose.
> 3. Locate & Spit: Think about where you are experiencing flavors on your tongue. Is it on the tip and sides? What is the mouthfeel and weight of the coffee on your tongue?
> 4. Describe: Now that you’ve smelled and tasted the coffee, think about how you would describe the experience. Talk about the **aroma**, **acidity**, **body**, and **flavor**. What food flavors or other experiences can you compare this sensation to? Citrus, cocoa, and berries are just a few flavors you might taste.